---
type: post
title: Comments
categories: [C, Introduction to C]
page: 3
---
Comments are great for giving information, documentation, or even disabling code. The compiler ignores comments, so they do not affect the final compiled program.
## Multi-Line Comments
Multi-line comments start with /* and end with */. They span multiple lines and look like this:
```c
/* This is an example of a multi-line comment.
   It is possible to write as many lines as are needed.
*/
```
{: .nolineno }
## Single-Line Comments
Single-line comments start with //, and everything to the right of this is now a comment. Any code to the left side of the // is still seen by the compiler.
```c
// This is an example of a single-line comment.
int x; // int x declares an int with the variable name x.
```
{: .nolineno }
## When to use Comments
Comments should be used sparingly. Cluttering your code with massive amounts of text explaining what you're doing will make your code much less readable. Instead, give variables meaningful names that explain what they are used for. You only need to use a comment to explain something that is not immediately obvious to someone reading your code or even yourself in the future. If you change the code that the comment was explaining, you will also need to update the comment. You should not use comments as ad hoc version control. Comments are very handy for disabling code. If you have a bug that you are trying to track down, commenting out some of your code may help isolate where the problem is. If you are adding new code that is not completely implemented yet but you need to compile and test the program, commenting out the new unfinished code is also handy until it's ready to use.
